EdMOOC-SNA
==========
_This repo is a store of my messy work in progress of SNA and related bits, shared with David and Edinburgh Uni folks for visibility._

See the wiki for a notepad on analysis ideas (very rough).

In general, files of type ... are ...:
* html - output reports, notebooks etc (include code fragments to document process)
* rmd - mixed R code and markdown intended to be put through _knitr_ to generate the html file with the same stem
* md - markdown file auto-generated by knitr in most cases
* R - R code, likely to be for pre-processing or including in rmd
* RData - typically one or more dataframes with some metadata, the stored result of executing the R or rmd with the same filename stem

Basic Forum Stats
---------

## Basic Forum Stats

Looks at macro-level stats for forums per course: aggregate descriptive quantities and high level structural features. Some of this also appears in the 1st MOOC Report; this is partially a database familiarisation activity augmented by some processing to get some more basic numbers to inform next-steps and contextualise results.

**STATUS: bug to fix, no further plans.**

## Regional Differences

Looks across forums and inspects regional differences. Currently looks only at post-counts.

**STATUS: Some plots need smartening (labels). Could also improve by indicating significance of differences to the plots. Needs interpretation/story. Possible extension to "reads" and/or to modify from couting posts to contributions (posts+comments)**

Dark Users
----------

Quantify the extent to which user identifiers left in activity traces (forums so far) do not appear in the hash_mapping and users tables. These are assumed to be withdrawn users.

At present, it considers forum_user_ids in threads, posts and comments.

**STATUS: no further plans**

Network Extractors
-----------------

Contains code to build networks based on different assumptions of what a tie is. These are plain R code and output - for each course separately - .RData containing the network (using the data structure from the "network" package) and a graphml file (created using the "igraph" package). Gephi can consume the graphml file, or it may be read in using the igraph package. NB igraph and network packages are not mutually compatible.

**STATUS: no further plans, although weighted whole-thread may be worth exploring (see Tie Type Comparison Synthesis)**

### Poster-Commenter Network

The assumption of the following that a tie between individuals is defined by a comment on a post. This is a directed tie from the commenter to the poster.

### Post-Set Network

An undirected graph where a poster and all commenters have mutual ties.

### Whole-thread with threshold

All contributors (comments or posts) to a thread are considered tied if both parties make a minimum (threshold) number of contributions.

Describe Net
------------

Network level summary statistics. Can use Poster-Commenter and Post-Set.

**STATUS: essentially complete. P-C and P-Set need to have "no I" added. Needs an interpretation/story.**

Describe One User
-----------

Single user focus in a "poster-commenter" tie model. Shows their proximal network and the posts/comments that led to it. Role and region shown.

**STATUS: Not up to date with latest view of tie models. This may get resurrected.**

Top Subnets
-----------

Extract and visualise subnets defined by the highest individual-level network statistics.

Currently only in/out degree (and for P-C networks)

**STATUS: Not up to date with latest view of tie models. This may get resurrected.**

Tie Type Comparison
------------

### Tie Type Correlation

Inspects networks defined by different tie types and looks for correlation etc. In other words: how similar do the centrality measures for different tie types appear to be?

**STATUS: no further work planned.**

### Tie Type Correlation Synthesis

An account of the tie models and centrality measures, exploring "what makes a good model" etc.

**STATUS: no further work planned.**

Forum Read Extract
-------------

Gets the peculiar key/value data and builds a MySQL table more suited to SQL access.

**STATUS: completed. Would be adaptible to quiz accesses in "kvm_course.ccc"**

Forum Attribute Patterns
-----------

Correlation, clustering and PCA experiments. Forum and thread-level investigation so far. Posts in progress.

**STATUS: Needs a thorough review to decide whether there is anything needed here, whether there are any insights to report.**

ERGM Models
--------------------

Apply the ERGM approach to a network....

**STATUS: incomplete and early work. Revisit using Whole-Thread tie model. Also add various attributes.**